All right it's time to learn about get.
And if you don't know what it is it's an awesome way to sort of control your code as you move along
in development.
So it's especially helpful to go back to previous versions of your code in case you sort of break something
you say I need to go back to this point in time.
Or if you're working on a bunch of different features you can work on one individual feature and then
bring it back smoothly into your code if you're working with teams get is an awesome resource.
So if you want to know more about good go to get dash SVM dot com and you can learn a ton of stuff there
and I'd recommend regardless of what operating system or system you're on.
Make sure you have get installed on your computer as you can see from the home screen here.
You can download it for Mac which is what I'm on.
But again that will get you to the right download for whatever operating system that you have.
And although it said it was going to download looks like I'm going to have to click this to get it to
install automatically.
But yeah with this the basic idea you know with get is that you have some control it's called version
control.
There's lots of different kinds of this and you'll see that as we move forward with Android studio.
But let's go ahead and open up a new Android studio project and we're just going to make one to learn
how to work with it.
So let's just go ahead and call this version control demo.
Just like that.
And we just want to do all the defaults for this and go ahead and make a new project.
Now I already have get installed on my machine that's why I didn't go forward with the whole installer
and all that stuff.
But again you might want to do that to make sure that you have get installed on your computer.
I can tell you personally there have been many times that it has saved my butt when I've done something
absolutely dumb with my code deleted something that I shouldn't have.
But then the other thing get is it's only as good as as many times as you essentially make these commits
which are basically saves.
So as much as you save your code you're going to be able to go back in time to a point when things were
working.
So it's kind of a you know get is great but it's only as great as you use it to be.
So you've got to kind of be on top of it but we'll learn how to how to use all this stuff.
So now that we have Android studio open you can see we've got this VC here up at the top this is one
of our menu items up there and this is called version control systems and you can choose which one that
you'd like to work with.
So here if we go enable version control integration it's going to say hey which system would you like
to integrate with.
And so there's others besides get but get is definitely the most popular and I think the best.
So let's go ahead and move forward with get.
We'll say okay to that.
And now that we have that in place let me show you how to create your first commit again.
Think of it as a way to sort of make tiny points in a timeline of your project that you're working on.
So to make our first commit what we're going to do is we're going to go to Visi Yes.
And then we're going to go to get there we're going to scroll down here until we find this ad.
And now with this ad I guess before we click this we have to choose what it is we're going to add so
we're going to select this whole app folder as far as this great script goes like we could add this
stuff.
But sometimes that's going to cause problems so we just want to add the bulk of our app here with this
ad so.
So go ahead and Right-Click this and we're going to go down to get and we're going to say AD So that's
going to add this code into our new commit that once we have that we're going to go to.
Yes.
And we're going to go over and go to commit here and we want to create a new commit or excuse me it's
not in the get dropped on there it's here in commit change.
So go ahead and do that.
So this is going to bring this little pop up message that says hey look you added all the files that
are here and if you're wondering what does AD mean.
Well remember commits are what we're ultimately trying to create and commits our points in time.
And so we're adding things to this commit saying that you know we want to add who files for this particular
point in time and since this is our very first commit Inish people usually say something for the first
time it like initial commit or something like that.
I'm going to do just in it that's typical one that is short for initialization.
And we'll just go ahead and hit commit here.
OK.
So you're going to see that it takes a little bit of time to get this up and running.
But this creates our first saved point in time our first commit in the project so this is kind of our
starting point here.
So it's going to say hey we found some mornings this year I want to move forward yes just go ahead and
commit that you know you it will get a little pop up here.
This is version control item down here and if you click on this this will show you the different things
that are happening if we go to the log here you can see our initial commit and this is on a branch called
M. we're going to learn about branches here and a second.
But what's really cool about these commits is that let's say we wanted to add some code to our project
so here we've got our main activity and I decide you know what I'm going to make a new string.
I'm going to call it name and I'm going to set it equal to you.
Nick do my little semi-colon there boom.
I've added some new code.
And you can see as I made any space out of this line of code there's some green over here to the left
side and this is saying this is new additional stuff that you've added to your app.
So what we want to do is once we've added this information we're going to save then we're going to go
to VHS get ADD.
That's going to add our code and if we go back here and say commit changes you'll notice it has tracked
this one new change that we've created over here on the left side it's showing for the main activity
that Java.
There was no code after set content view there was just that curly bracket but now we've added a space
and our new line and we've added this new string called name so it's saying hey this is a new thing.
Are you sure you want to add it.
So we do want to do that let's you know put some sort of message with this that we're going to say maybe
something like We added a variable something like that.
That's not how you spell variable variable.
Now I'm feeling dumb so let's just say we added a VAR.
OK.
So let's go ahead and commit that.
And now if you look here inside of our log for version control the initial commit was in it and then
we said we added a VAR K and you can see this is like the next point in time.
So what's cool about this is if we want to we can always go back in time with something so let's say
for example I decide that you know what I don't need this string Nick any more Instead I'm going to
make a new int called age and I get a set it equal to 67 right like something like this if I'm going
to save this code.
Well I have an opportunity here to go to if I go to local changes and I unpack default here I can take
my main activity and I can right click here and I can say you know what I want to revert and I say reverse
there and boom.
It brings back the code that I have.
So if you ever make a mistake do something wrong you can always go ahead and do that and we'll take
you back to the starting point which is pretty great.
So the other thing that I wanted to talk about with get is that you can make things called branches
that's where if you're working like a new feature or something like that you might want to make a branch
in a branches separately creating a separate timeline.
So if we go ahead down here to where it says Get master this is pretty hidden and the bottom want to
make sure you see this.
You can go ahead and click this in say a new branch you can give your branch name so let's say we were
going to be adding Facebook to our app or something we could go ahead and click on this and say All
right we're going to make a new branch we're going to call it an F. B stuff and we'll go ahead and add
that.
So now we have this new branch called FBI stuff so let's go ahead and you know say we're going to add
some stuff like We love Facebook or just adding a comment here so we'll save this version control.
We want to commit changes and if we go down here we can see it's added some stuff there so we're going
to say something like Facebook rocks.
OK.
And we'll go ahead and commit that if we go now to the log.
You can see we have Facebook rocs this Newcomen.
But look the master branch is still on the commit called we added a VAR whereas this new branch FBI
stuff it's here.
So let's go ahead and add something else like we'll just pretend like we had some other Facebook stuff
like oh log in now works or something like that.
So add that and we'll save and then we're going to go.
VC Yes commit changes and say you know log in added or something like that and boom all of a sudden
look there's another commit and you can see FBI stuff is going even further.
So what's cool now is we can actually take you know it's nice to have these two branches and if we want
to we can go ahead and if we go back down here to the bottom we can click on master and say check out
and that will go back to this point in time and so you can see those two comments that are made are
completely gone.
And if I want to go back to the FBI stuff and I say check that out boom it brings back the Facebook
stuff so I can kind of travel between these two points in time which is neat.
But let's say you know I wanted to go ahead and you know bring these two worlds together.
Well what I can do is while I have master checked out here if I go.
Let's see right now I am on the stuff so check out Master.
So make sure it says get Master down here so I'm at this point in time I can go to FBI stuff.
And here I'm going to say merge and that's going to bring.
Look at that master up to the same point as FBI stuff and it's essentially added those two things together.
So you know we have the string name as equal to Nick but we also have this.
And so it sort of encapsulates that all in Kent.
So this is kind of a really quick intro into get.
There's so much more that you can do with this.
Like I said a ton of possibility when you're working with a team with Get it makes it so much easier
to work with.
But just wanted to give you a nice introduction into this so I hope you enjoyed learning about a version
control system and it helps you manage your code that much better.